# Amelia

Amelia is a Domain Specific Language for deploying distributed systems.

### Installation

The Amelia editor is an Eclipse plugin. To develop deployment specifications, you need to install Amelia first. In Eclipse, add the Xtext update site (http://download.eclipse.org/modeling/tmf/xtext/updates/releases/) and the Amelia update site (http://unicesi.github.io/amelia/releases). Then, list the features in the latter and follow the steps in the installation Wizard. If you have never installed Eclipse plugins before, the [Eclipse help site](http://help.eclipse.org/mars/index.jsp?topic=/org.eclipse.platform.doc.user/tasks/tasks-124.htm) can give you a hand.

Amelia is also available as a stand-alone compile through Maven. Please refer to the [examples](examples/) to know more about the Maven configuration.

### Documentation

- [Getting started with the Amelia DSL](docs/GettingStarted.md). An introduction to specifying deployment artifacts with the Amelia DSL
- [Examples](examples). Explore the examples to discover how to use Amelia with third-party technologies
- [Style guide](docs/StyleGuide.md). A list of "good practices"

### Cloning this repository

Before cloning this repository, please notice two things: first, this repository does not contain generated sources, and second, the Eclipse update site is hosted in the `gh-pages` branch. That being said, my advice is to clone each branch separately; this avoids compiling the sources everytime you checkout the `gh-pages` branch. Additionally, this makes cloning the `master` branch lighter.

To clone the `master` branch:
```bash
git clone -b "master" --single-branch https://github.com/unicesi/amelia
```
To clone the `gh-pages` branch:
```bash
git clone -b "gh-pages" --single-branch https://github.com/unicesi/amelia p2-repository
```

### Compiling from sources

If you want to build the Amelia sources locally, you need Maven.

First of all, make sure to increase memory

```bash
export MAVEN_OPTS="-Xmx512m -XX:MaxPermSize=256m"
```

And then run

```bash
mvn install
```

#### Using Amelia as a stand-alone library

The maven artifacts generated by `mvn install` expect Pascani and Xtend lib to be present in the execution environment. In order to use Amelia as a stand-alone library, you need to compile the library project using:

```
cd maven/org.amelia.dsl.lib
mvn package -Pstand-alone-jar
```

You can then use the file `org.amelia.dsl.lib-<version>-dependencies.jar` from the `target` folder.

### Questions?

If you have any questions about Amelia, or something doesn't work as expected, please [submit an issue here](https://github.com/unicesi/amelia/issues/new).
